Hi, I'm John Geleynsse, Director of
Technology Evangelism at Apple.
With more and more apps on
the App Store every day,
it's important to take your app
to the next level to get noticed.
In this video,
I'll show you some great apps
on the App Store today that
set new standards in usability,
design, and innovation.
These examples will help you to
understand the characteristics and key
ingredients that make apps really great.
So let's get started.
Here are the seven ingredients that
we've seen in some of the best apps on
the App Store and as we've worked with
countless developers creating apps for
iPhone and iPad over the past few years.
As you design and create your iOS app,
be sure to incorporate as many
of these ingredients as possible.
Let's look at these one by one.
First of all, great iPhone and iPad
apps are delightful.
They draw you in,
they keep you satisfied,
and leave you with a great experience.
Making you come back again and again.
Delightful apps do this in several ways.
First, they're inviting.
They have an attractive design that
leaves a great first impression.
So be sure that your app leaves a
great first impression with users.
Delightful apps are also intuitive.
This means that people know
exactly what to do when they first
launch them and never need to
consult a manual or any other help.
Intuitive apps are designed with
users in mind and they're organized
in ways that meet user expectations.
So the question is this:
is your app intuitive or is it
difficult for people to use?
Delightful apps are also engaging.
This means that they keep
people coming back for more.
Your app should meet a need so
effectively and provide so much value
that users come back again and again.
Delightful apps are also enabling.
Meaning they allow people to do
things they couldn't do before.
I mean, think about this for a moment.
How will your app do this?
How will your app do what it does in
a way that's never been done before?
And finally,
delightful apps are exciting.
This means they generate
enthusiasm in people,
they have flair,
and they show great attention to detail.
And in my experience,
apps in any category of the
App Store can be exciting.
Here's a great example of
a very inviting casual game
called Dizzy B by Igloo Games.
This app leaves you with a
very happy first impression.
It's attractive,
has bright and friendly colors,
very cute sounds, and is very responsive.
And a whole lot of fun to play.
And keep in mind,
these are really valuable
attributes to have,
even if your app isn't a game.
Here's another really inviting
game called Carcassonne.
It's just like the real board game,
which many families and
friends like to play.
If you've ever played the real
board game and then discovered
this app on the App Store,
you won't be disappointed.
Carcassonne for iPad uses
high-quality textures and visual
elements from the real board
game that look fantastic on iPad.
The production value of your
app's artwork should be as
high-quality as possible,
too.
And, wherever possible,
your app should mimic the real world
or try to reflect elements of what
people are used to when they're
doing the things your app does.
Here's Time Tuner by Dream Surface.
It's a bedside clock radio
with location-awareness,
and it's also a great way
to get your app to work.
It's also a great way
It's a great way to get your app to work.
It's a great app that's super
intuitive and does one thing so well,
it could become a replacement for
the real thing for some people.
Your app should do one thing well
and not try to do too many things.
Now,
here's an example of an engaging app.
Remember,
engaging means that the app keeps
you coming back again and again.
This is Tab Toolkit by Agile Partners.
It won an Apple Design Award in 2010.
It lets you download and sync tablature
files from the web to your iPad,
and then use them to learn how to
play a piano or chord a guitar.
It looks like sheet music,
and yet offers the ability
to change instruments,
change tempo,
isolate left hand or right hand,
bass guitar or lead guitar,
and much more.
And it's these capabilities,
combined with lots of valuable content,
that keep users coming back for more.
So what will your app do to be sticky
and bring people back time and again?
And finally,
here's an example of an exciting app.
It's the Jamie Oliver 20-Minute
Meals app for iPhone.
It too won an Apple Design Award in 2010.
It lets you pick great recipes,
manage their ingredients,
organize grocery lists,
watch streaming videos,
and follow detailed
step-by-step instructions.
And the visual design of this
app is really attractive.
Great production value.
It's nicely organized and it uses
the latest technologies on iOS.
That's what great apps do.
But what sets this app apart
is its attention to detail.
Because when you're following a recipe
step-by-step and then rotate the iPhone,
you get a larger,
more legible presentation
of instructions.
And then,
if you tap the screen on the left,
you get a photo of how the food should
appear at that stage in the recipe.
I mean, how cool is that?
That's not what you'd expect.
And as a result,
it surprises and excites.
Great apps sweat the details.
So how will your app
exceed user expectations?
So that's Delightful,
the first of seven essential
ingredients for great apps.
Great iPhone and iPad
apps are innovative.
By innovation I mean groundbreaking,
jaw-dropping, category defining.
I mean really inspirational apps and
apps that are a breath of fresh air.
Take Flight Control by FireMint.
It's a highly addictive air traffic
control app which is used multi-touch
to allow you to tap an incoming
airplane and drag a path to the
runway matching the airplane's color.
If two planes are going to collide,
you can tap one of them
and drag a new flight path.
It's simple to learn, easy to play,
and super addictive.
Now, the innovative thing about
this app is that at the moment
it arrived on the App Store,
it defined a completely
new genre of gaming.
Until then,
no one had ever done an app with
that type of interaction model.
Your goal should be to create
a genre-defining app too.
Here's another really great
example of an innovative app.
This is Peaks by Augmented Outdoors,
an app that lets you identify mountains
by triangulating iPhone's GPS location,
compass bearing,
and accelerometer to accurately determine
which direction you're looking and
how far away you are from a mountain.
It then tells you the name, height,
and distance of the
mountain you're looking at.
How cool is that?
Before iOS and the App Store,
we couldn't imagine these
types of innovative solutions.
And now there are more and more augmented
reality apps every day transforming
how we use our iPhones and iPads and
changing the way we get things done.
How will you take advantage of similar
hardware and software features of iPhone,
iPad and iOS to augment
what your app does?
Here's an augmented
reality app for golfers.
This is Golfscape by
ShotZoom Software LLC.
Hold this app up as you look down the
fairway and it will tell you how far
away the green is and what obstacles
and traps exist and where they are.
Amazing!
Great apps exceed users' expectations.
Yours should too.
Here's Zipcar.
This is car rental
without the countertops,
the agents,
the parking lots or any of that stuff.
It lets people find the nearest
available Zipcar and reserve it.
And then as you walk towards
the vehicle and get nearby,
the app displays a key fob so you can
unlock the doors and honk the horn.
That's awesome!
It's great apps like
this that get noticed.
And here's a fantastic new app that
recently appeared on the App Store.
It's called Word Lens by Quest Visual.
This is unbelievable innovation.
It translates English to
Spanish and back on the fly.
It maintains relative font size, color,
thickness and transparency
and background color.
Watch this carefully.
Isn't that amazing?
Great apps like this are unforgettable.
And then there's Doodle Jump,
an incredibly addictive app that has
several innovations worth noting.
First, a simple swipe to change themes
instead of a more modal approach.
Second, in-game leaderboards.
And third,
they do regular updates with new
themes and creatures and gameplay,
keeping users coming back for more.
Great apps make things
simple and constantly provide
users with great value.
And the last example of innovation
is Scrabble by Electronic Arts.
Check this out.
So here we have two people playing a
game of Scrabble using their iPads.
Lots of fun.
But check this out.
You can manage your letters in
private on your iPhone or iPod
Touch and then move them to the main
board with a simple flick gesture.
What a riot!
With 160 million iOS devices out there,
people are looking for really great
software to take advantage of the
iPhones and iPads that they already have.
And so these are a few examples
of really innovative apps.
So the question is this:
What innovations will
you build into your app?
Now, let's talk about optimization.
Great iPhone and iPad
apps are also optimized.
Now optimization means several things.
First, it means that great
apps are high quality.
This means they function as designed.
They're robust.
They're stable.
They're reliable.
They're just what people
expect on iPhone and iPad.
Optimization also means
that you make sure your app
delivers maximum performance.
It launches quickly,
it's really responsive,
and it's super efficient.
Optimization also means optimizing your
app's integration with iOS technologies.
That means using as many of the powerful
built-in frameworks as you can to
deliver rich functionality rather than
writing your own duplicate frameworks.
And here are some of the frameworks
available to your app on iOS,
but there are many,
many more within the SDK.
These frameworks are what we use
to develop iOS itself and what we
use for built-in apps like Safari,
Mail, Photos, and more.
These are mature, stable,
hardware accelerated.
They're localized and accessible,
so using them means your app
will be these things too.
Lastly, optimizing your app means
building something that's
made specifically for iOS.
And targeted at the iPhone or iPad,
rather than developing something
that's cross-platform and
lowest common denominator.
Now here's a great example of an
app designed specifically for iPad.
It's Infinity Blade by
Chair Entertainment Group.
It has incredible gameplay,
unbelievable performance,
and stunning high-res graphics.
This is an app that's only possible
because it was developed for iPad.
Here's another example of an app
designed specifically for iPad.
This is Inkling,
an interactive textbook app that
offers students interactivity,
social collaboration,
tutorials and quizzes,
and simple ease of use,
only possible on iPad.
And then there's The Elements
by Theodore Gray,
an interactive periodic table of the
Elements textbook offering content not
previously available in digital form.
for iPad.
So the challenge is this:
be sure to optimize your app in
all of the ways we just mentioned.
Avoid just building something
and hoping it's good enough.
Now, onto connected.
Great iPhone and iPad apps are connected,
and there are three aspects to this.
The first is to ensure that your
app works well with other apps.
If your app displays a telephone number,
people should be able to tap
that number and initiate a
phone call if they're on iPhone.
If your app displays a web address,
people should be able to view that
content within your app using a UI web
view or be automatically sent to
Safari to browse the content there.
And the same concept applies to street
addresses and other location information.
Either display this information
within your app using Map Kit or allow
people to switch out to the Maps app.
The second aspect of
connectedness is to ensure that,
where appropriate,
your app is connected with
the personal information
available on the user's device.
Contacts,
photos and more can be used by your app,
making it far more
integrated and personal.
And the third aspect of being connected,
and the focal point for this
section of the presentation,
is that your app can reach out beyond
itself to add more value for people.
For example,
there are millions of iPhones out
there that your app can connect to.
Here's the Starbucks app.
It looks great and
it's super easy to use.
Among other things,
it lets you create your
favorite Starbucks drink,
so that when your colleague, friend,
or family member is
making a Starbucks run,
you can connect to their iPhone
and send them your drink order.
This is a simple example of
how to connect with others
for a very practical reason.
And it's a clever way of getting
people to notice and remember your app.
Could your app benefit from being
able to do a digital handshake
and exchange information this way?
Here's iPad to iPad.
I mentioned this app before,
it's Scrabble from Electronic Arts.
But it's a great example
not only of innovation,
but of connectedness between
iPads via Bluetooth or Wi-Fi to
really enhance the gameplay.
Connecting your app on iPhone with
a companion app on Mac OS X can
also add lots of value for people.
Here's Billings Touch by Market Circle.
This is a very capable time tracking
app for anyone who wants to manage
billing against projects or clients.
On its own, it's really great.
But combined with a companion app on
the Mac called Billings Mac OS X means
people can have data automatically
synced so that they can take advantage
of the power of the desktop to,
for example, design and print an invoice.
And a similar example,
this time between iPhone,
iPad and the Mac,
is Things by Cultured Code,
a very flexible,
really well designed GTD getting
things done to do manager app which
automatically synchronizes tasks and
projects between these devices directly,
providing users with excellent
functionality and mobility.
This is definitely an
example worth following.
And this is SkyGrid,
a great app with consistently high app
store ratings that keeps people up to
date on the things that they care about.
This app on iPhone and iPad is a great
example of how reaching out beyond the
device can add lots of value for users.
And the last example is
Flight Board by Ben Cazaz,
an app that provides flight departure
and arrival information using a really
accurate reproduction of a flight board.
It's a simple,
extremely well done example of
an app that reaches out beyond
the device to connect with more
information of value to users.
That's connected.
Now, number five.
Great iPhone and iPad
apps are accessible.
Building accessibility in your app means
that everyone will be able to use it,
which is important whether your app
is for in-house use by employees
or for anyone in the app store.
Now here are some interesting
stats for the US that are likely
similar to the rest of the world.
First of all,
10 million people are visually impaired.
31 million people are hearing impaired.
And some 12 million have
a learning disability.
For example, they might have dyslexia and
so will misinterpret what they
see on the screen in your app.
So, all told, that's one in five users.
Or one in five employees.
Or one in five of your customers.
Basically, 50 million people who won't be
able to use your app at all or
who will have difficulty using
it unless you make it accessible.
The good news is that accessibility
is built into iOS and integrated
into numerous frameworks,
including UIKit, for example.
Your job is to simply follow the
documentation and add accessibility
wherever you can to your app.
And in return,
the Accessibility Framework will enable
powerful new capabilities in your app,
including voiceover and much more.
Great iPhone and iPad apps are
accessible so that everyone can use them.
Great iPhone and iPad apps are localized.
It's more important than ever for your
app to be usable by people everywhere,
since the App Store is now
in more than 90 countries.
We live in a global village with many,
many languages being
spoken in each country.
Reaching all of these people in
their language of choice is a great
way to make sure that your app
has as broad a reach as possible.
So localize your UI for as
many languages as possible.
Here's things for
iPhone by Cultured Code,
available in English, German, and French.
and even more languages.
Localization can be restricted
to the basic UI of your app,
but can extend to all
of your content too,
if that makes sense.
Every little bit helps,
and iOS makes it easy to include all of
the translations within the same binary,
so that there's still only one
app that users need to download.
And finally,
great iPhone and iPad apps are designed.
This means focusing on delivering
the optimal interaction design,
meaning how the app works and what
happens when things are tapped.
And focusing on a strong visual design,
meaning how the app looks
and presents information.
Let's begin with a great
quote by Adam Angst.
He says,
"The iPad becomes the app you're using.
Switch to another app and
the iPad becomes that app.
If that's not magic,
I don't know what is." I love this
quote because it's been my own
experience and it provides a great
backdrop for a discussion on design.
Here are a few examples
that illustrate this point.
Here's maps on iPad.
iPad becomes a digital map.
Here's Notes on iPad.
iPad becomes a classic paper notepad.
Here's Calendar app.
iPad becomes a day timer.
Here's Contacts.
iPad becomes an address book.
Notice there's no menu bar,
no windowing system, no file system,
or any of the encumbrances of a
traditional computing experience.
The only thing that matters
is the app that's running.
This is NPR, National Public Radio,
for iPad.
It combines their radio broadcasts
with their excellent online content.
iPad becomes the best
NPR experience ever.
And here's a point of sale system
called Square for iPhone and
iPad that's really attractive,
easy to use, and allows anyone to take
credit card payments.
Totally transformative
for small business.
iPad becomes a point of sale system.
Here's Marvel Comics,
a fantastic digital comic
reading experience on iPad.
iPad becomes a comic book.
And here's AmpliTube Fender
by Agile Partners.
iPad becomes a Fender guitar
amp and effects modeler.
How beautiful is that?
And so, as you can see,
each app takes over the iPad screen
and the device becomes your app.
It becomes whatever you want it to be.
This is why design matters so much.
It's vital that your app works
exactly as users would expect it to,
and that it has the attention
to detail and polish needed
to surprise and delight.
These are the seven ingredients
of great iPhone and iPad apps.
So there you go.
There are definitely many more
app examples I could have talked
about since there are lots of
really great apps on the App Store.
And there are probably other valuable
ingredients we could discuss too.
But the ones I've covered here
are the ones you should begin
incorporating into your app today.
I look forward to seeing the next
great version of your app and hearing
about any questions you have and about
your experience developing for iOS.